# The Dataset

Our dataset provides police-related violence and racial equity in the United States. Since Law enforcement agencies and government provide insufficient numbers of lives killed by police during arrest, the presence of documents about police killings that are supplied by the USA National Vital Statistics System (NVSS), FBI, and all data from the agencies and governments are not well-organized. Therefore figuring out the relationship between police violence and race through statistics from these resources is still difficult. Our dataset includes categorized data on police shootings, descriptive statistics for citizen fatalities involving police, and police officer deaths suffered in the line of duty. This can provide not only comprehensive accounting of people killed by police but also provides the relationship between police violence and racial equity. For example, Our data for citizens fatally shot by police provides names, dates, manner of death, whether the person was armed, age, race, city, state, signs of mental illness, threat level and the existence of body cam, and the location. Through the details of the citizens killed by the police, we can observe the legitimacy of the shooting by the identification of the victim. In regards to our dataset, since Jan. 1, 2015, the post of Fatal Force is regularly updated as fatal shootings are reported, and our dataset is updated as of Aug 2020.
| Name of Data File        | # of Observations           | # of Variables |  Source         |  
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-----:|:------: |  
| Level data including race      | 103 | 45 | Mapping Police Violence, https://mappingpoliceviolence.org/aboutthedata |
| Citizen killed by police      | 28622      | 29 | Fatal Encounters, fatalencounters.org |
| police killed in the line of duty | 22801      | 10 | FiveThirtyEight, https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/police-deaths |
| Victim data by name     | 8428      | 21 | Mapping Police Violence, https://mappingpoliceviolence.org/aboutthedata |
| citizens shot by police | 5553      | 14 | The Washington Post, https://github.com/washingtonpost/data-police-shootings |

By collecting this data, our dataset can report the details of citizens killed by the police. Moreover, through this dataset, we can observe police violence and racial equity more in-depth with the identification of police officers and citizens. Our data will benefit the public, organizations, and government by having insight into the relationship between police violence and racial equity. 

# Limitations
With this dataset, it is not sufficient to demonstrate police violence and racial equity. To demonstrate this more accurately, we need a broader source such as the statistics of police overreaction in arresting citizens and the type of victims according to that. Moreover, categorizing this dataset based on the threats to the police officer is necessary to figure out whether the action from the police officer was from self-defense or was violence from racial discrimination. To do this, find the data such as the number of innocent citizens killed by police officers' misjudgment and statistics of cases of excessive arrest and the number of victims. Moreover, finding more recent data is important to provide a vital source of police-related violence since the dataset contains data until August 2015.
